## PRINTING ON LINUX
Printing requires software that converts information from an application you are using
to a language your printer can understand. The linux standarad for printing iS CUPS
(Common Unix Printing System).

CUPS is the underlying software linux systems use to print from applications. It interprets
page descriptions produced by your application and then sends the application to the printer.
It acts as a print server for both local and network printers.

## HOW DOES CUPS WORK
CUPS carries out the printing process with the help of it's various components:

- Configuraion file: The print scheduler reads server settings from several 
  configuration files, the two most common ones being cupsd.conf and printers.conf.
  These and all other cups config files are stored under the /etc/cups/ directory.
  We can view the full list of configuration files by typing `ls -LF /etc/cups/` .

- Scheduler: manages print jobs, handles administartive commands,allows users to
  query the printer status, and manages the flow of data through all CUPS components.

- Job files: CUPS stores print requests as files under `/var/spool/cups` directory (these
  can actually be accessed before a document is sent to the printer). Data files are 
  prefixed with the letter  `d` and control files are prefixed with the letter `c`.

- Log files: Log files are placed under `/var/logs/cups` and are used by the scheduler to 
  record activities that have taken place. These files include access, error and page records.

- Printer drivers: CUPS uses filters to convert job file formats to printable formats. 
  Printer drivers contain descriptions for currently connected and configured printers, 
  and are usually stored under /etc/cups/ppd/. 

- Backend: The print data is then sent to the printer through a filter, and via a backend
  that helps to locate devices connected to the system.


                             user
                              |
                              |
                              v
configuration files -----> scheduler
                            |    |
                            |    |
                            v    v
              ----------   job  log
            /             files files          printer
            |                                     ^
            \                                    /
              --> filter > PPD filter > backend /           