#### Local Security Principles

## Understanding Linux Security

# User Accounts
* Upon ccount creation, new user information is added to the user database and the user's home 
directorymust be created and populated with some essential files.

* **UID**: Every user must have a user id
    * User ID (UID)	Every user must have a user id (UID)

    * UID 0 is reserved for root user

    * UID's ranging from 1-99 are reserved for other predefined accounts

    * UID's ranging from 100-999 are reserved for system accounts and groups

    * Normal users have UID's of 1000 or greater

# Types Of Accounts
* Linux has four types of accounts
    * root

    * system

    * normal

    * network

* The **last** utility, is used to show the last time each user logged into the system.

# Root Account
* This is the most priviledged account on the linux system and it has the power to carry out all the facets of
  system administration, including:
    * adding accounts

    * changing user password

    * examining log files

    * installing software etc

## sudo, Process Isolation, Limiting Hardware Access and Keeping Systems Current

# su and sudo
* Once a user elevates to the root account using su, the user can do anything that the root user can do 
  for as long as the user wants, without being asked again for a password. 

* Offers more features and is considered more secure and more configurable. Exactly what the user is allowed
  to do can be precisely controlled and limited. By default the user will either always have to keep giving 
  their password to do further operations with sudo, or can avoid doing so for a configurable time interval.

# sudo features
* has the ability to keep track of unsuccesful attempts at gaining root access. User's authorization for
  using sudo is based on configuration information found in the /etc/sudoers file and in the /etc/sudoers.d
  directory.

# process isolation
* Linux is said to be more secure than many other operating system because processes are naturally isolated from
  each other. One process can not access resources of another process , even when that process is running with 
  the same user priviledges. Linux thus makes it difficult (though certainly not impossible) for viruses and 
  security exploits to access and attack random resources on a system.

* Additional security mechanisms that limit risks of futher include:
    * Control Groups (cgroups)
      Allows system administrators to group processes and associate finite resources to each cgroup.

    * Containers
      Makes it possible to run multiple isolated Linux systems (containers) on a single system by relying on cgroups.

    * Virtualization
      Hardware is emulated in such a way that not only can processes be isolated, but entire systems are run 
      simultaneously as isolated and insulated guests (virtual machines) on one physical host.
